# DocBot
DocBot is a smart documentation assistant built in Python. It helps you interact with your PDF documentation and answer questions related to the content of the PDF.


## Features
- Extract text from PDF documents.
- Perform question-answering tasks on the extracted text.
- Find the most relevant image based on a query.
- Display the relevant image along with the answer to the user's query.


## Requirements
You need to have the following dependencies installed:
- Python 3.x
- PyPDF2
- Pillow (PIL)
- Streamlit
- Google Generative AI
- Fitz
- OpenAI Inference SDK
- Langchain Community


## Model

1. **Clone the Repository**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/naman-6420/docbot_p28_A.git
cd docbot_p28_A
```
2. **Create a Virtual Environment**

It is recommended to create a virtual environment to manage dependencies:
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

3. **Install Dependencies**

Install the required packages using pip:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. **Run Streamlit:** Navigate to the folder containing the code and run the following command in terminal:
```bash 
    streamlit run final_model.py
```

5. **Upload PDF:** Once Streamlit server is running, a browser window will open. Upload your PDF file using the provided file uploader.

6. **Add Your Prompt:** Enter your query or prompt related to the content of the uploaded PDF in the chat interface.

7. **Wait for Results:** DocBot will process your prompt, extract relevant information, generate captions for images, and display the most relevant image along with the answer to your query.

**Note:** 
- Image generation and captioning processes may take some time as we utilize APIs for YOLO(roboflow) and Gemini Pro Vision. 
- You can find the images generated by DocBot in the 'uploads' folder of the project directory.
- The cosine similarity score between image captions and your prompt will be displayed on your terminal as DocBot processes your query.


## APIs Used
DocBot utilizes the following APIs and models:

- **Gemini Pro Vision:** Used for image captioning, providing descriptive captions for images extracted from the PDF.

- **GPT-3.5-Turbo:** Employs GPT-3.5 for text-based question-answering tasks, extracting relevant information from the PDF.

- **YOLO(from Roboflow):** A custom-trained YOLO V5 model(on a PDF, which was custom trained on bounding boxes) specifically designed for image detection within PDF documents.

# Demonstration
[Find a video demonstration here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1P5tAJg7zi80dA0APYNUqJWmx5TWypO-t/view?usp=drive_link)
